News - Date: 21 June 2020 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 934 A 22-year-old plus-size model, Mpho Gift Matodzi, is set to conquer the modelling world. The Makonde-born model is one of the finalists in the 2020 edition of the Miss South Africa Plus World. Matodzi said she wanted to empower plus-size women. "I joined the pageant because I felt my dream is to inspire other plus-size women to gain confidence and love themselves as they are. It should not end in Venda only. Many girls are experiencing body shaming in our communities." She said she wanted to put a stop to body shaming in society. "As I was growing up, I experienced bullying. Opening up about this is very hard and emotionally challenging. I want to change the stereotype that beautiful women are petite or slim. However, plus-size women are beautiful and full of different amazing talents that a lot of people have not yet realized. That is why I believe that women should not be boxed into one type of beauty," she said in a previous interview with Limpopo Mirror. "I aim to achieve a lot through this pageant and help those in need. I would also like to see other plus-size young women join plus size pageants. You must love yourselves and be confident enough not to let your body size limit you from doing what you love," she said. Matodzi believes that modelling brings out the best in her and has helped her to regain her confidence. The final date for voting is 30 June. To vote for her, clink on this link https://pageantvote.es/pageants/2485/contestants/14796. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the pageant will be held next year in April.  Miss South Africa Plus World finalist, Mpho Gift Matodzi.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: