News - Date: 07 June 2020 Written by:  / Viewed: 765 A dark cloud of mourning is hanging over one of the largest African churches, the United African Apostolic Church (UAAC). This follows the passing on of one of their elders and church pioneers, Senior Inspector Johannes Masindi of Musina. He passed on at the ripe age of 95 after battling with some illness. Masindi played a major role in the establishment of the UAAC branches both in Musina and Zimbabwe in the years around 1950. He also personally took an initiative to register the church with the then Messina Town Council. Masindi served in various senior positions in church, including being a member of the disciplinary committee at national level. He was also a political activist who once went in exile to Zimbabwe, following his countless interrogations by the then apartheid government. Born in Thononda village in 1925, Masindi moved to Musina in 1943 and became the first person to operate a donkey cart while selling firewood around the area. He constructed a lot a donkey carts that were later sold to residents. During those days, owning a donkey cart was a symbol of success. As a loyal member of the UAAC, Masindi had a long history in the church and had seen all the changes. He had faithfully served under three archbishops of the church, namely Archbishop Paul Miriri (deceased), Archbishop Elias Miriri (deceased) and the current Archbishop David Mureri. Mureri expressed sadness over Masindi’s passing. He said the old man was a strong tower, pillar, pathfinder, and bulldozer of the church who had sacrificed his life for the growth of the gospel of God. “He was larger than life. Words alone cannot describe his greatness. The church is what it is today because of his contributions. The history of our church can never be narrated without his name. We send sincere condolences to the family and all who had the pleasure of knowing and working with this kind man of God. We will miss his wisdom, advice, prayerful mood, and his unique and spiritual gospel preaching talent. Although we are mourning his passing, we thank God for giving us a wonderful gift in him.” Family spokesperson Marcus Muthude Masindi said the deceased was a very gifted spiritual person who believed in prayer. “God used him to warn us about the future and he was the first person to prophesy about the division of our church 15 years ago. Although he was sick, we thought he would recover and continue to work for the church and the people of God. However, as a family, we are very proud that we have produced one of the giants in the religious sector and a soldier who has worked hard in the development of Musina and the local community. He might be gone, but his contributions will live with us for ever.” He was buried in Musina last Friday under strict regulations in terms of the Disaster Management Act to combat the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. He is survived by his wife, Ennie, and seven children.  Senior inspector Johannes Masindi.  Email: