News - Date: 15 June 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 458 The recalled former member of the mayoral committee (MMC) in the Vhembe District Municipality (VDM) who had allegedly sent intimidating video clips of a pistol firing bullets to the executive mayor of Vhembe, Cllr Dowelani Nenguda, and Thulamela Mayor Avhashoni Tshifhango, was granted bail of R3 000 by the Thohoyandou Magistrate's Court on Friday. His case was postponed to 25 August for further police investigations. A condition of his bail was that he must not interfere with witnesses in any manner, not go to their houses and not communicate directly or indirectly with witnesses, said the regional spokeswoman for the Limpopo Director of Public Prosecutions, Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi. This came after his new legal representative, Adv Engelbrecht (SC) had lodged an urgent application with the court, arguing that her client was entitled to be released on bail as was his constitutional right. Mr Ndivhuwo Calvin Radamba (38) was one of the recalled members some three weeks ago. He was arrested on Saturday a fortnight ago by the South African Police Services’ provincial investigation unit and tracking team at his home in Polokwane, after he had allegedly sent intimidating video clips to the two complainants. The video clips show a firearm being loaded and then discharging bullets, while a struggle song can be heard in the background as the gunshots go off but without showing the targets. Limpopo police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said they were investigating the two cases of intimidation after the two complainants had opened cases at the Thohoyandou Police Station on Friday, a fortnight ago. The ANC Youth League in the Vhembe region, by way of Mr Festus Mafela, said that as the league they were very happy that one of their comrades had been given bail.      Axed MMC member Mr Ndivhuwo Radamba (holding book of Steve Biko) photographed with his jubilant supporters outside the Thohoyandou Magistrate's Court after his release on bail.  Email: