News - Date: 08 June 2020 Written by:  / Viewed: 468 While other small businesses are feeling the painful punches of the Covid-19 countrywide lockdown, Mr Robert Mudzimu of Musina is singing a different tune. Mudzimu, who fixes electronic equipment at home, says he has never been as busy in his 34-year career of fixing electronic equipment as during the lockdown period. He says this is because people are overusing their electronic equipment while staying at home as they have nothing else to do. The 54-year-old Mudzimu taught himself to repair electronic equipment way back in 1986. He says although he sympathizes with the rest of the nation because the lockdown is making people’s life difficult, to him, it has come as a blessing in disguise. “These days I work non-stop because everyone wants to take their electronics home. Things like plasma television sets, microwaves, stoves, irons, radios, and fans are the most affected because they seldom get time to rest these days. These things keep flowing in for repairs on a daily basis. It pains me to see other people losing their jobs because of the lockdown while my small business is booming. We just have to understand that everything has its own advantages and disadvantages.” He says although he is happy that community members are supporting his business during the lockdown, he has a word of advice for users of electronic equipment: “If people get tired and need a rest, it means that the electronic items also need a rest. You cannot run a television set for 24 hours and expect it to have a long life. Another thing that is killing most electronic equipment is the use of the wrong voltage. What I have also realized is that most people do not read manuals for their electronic equipment. They end up using them in a wrong way, which results in serious damage. If we use these things correctly, they will serve us loyally for a long time.” Mudzimu encourages unemployed young people to use their hands to survive. “If I taught myself to fix electronic items, you can also do the same. Look for something that makes you happy and follow your dreams around it. In that way, you will be reducing the number of unemployed people in your community. I am also available to teach young people, free of charge, how to fix electronic items.”  Mr Robert Mudzimu of Musina says the lockdown has kept him busy with fixing electronic items of local community members.  Email: