News - Date: 12 June 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 897 The lifeless body of a young man was found on a street at Magau last Friday morning with gaping wounds on the body, suggesting that he might have been hit with sharp objects before he died. He was later identified as Mr Calvin Raulinga (49). The family spokesperson, Mr Baldwin Raulinga, said that he had heard that a male person had been lying dead in the street but was not sure whether the man was his brother. He immediately rushed to the scene. “We found a large group of people standing around,” he said. When he could get close enough to see, he realised that his brother was the one lying there. “If the people who did this wanted money, they should have taken such from him and left him alone. It is painful. Those responsible for my brother’s killing will pay for it one of these days. God will answer me,” he said. He said his brother´s death had left him devastated. “I am at a loss. I do not even know what will become of me after this death. He loved me and was my pillar of strength,“ said Raulinga. Chief Ndwakhulu Sinthumule of Magau said that the royal house had called for calm, saying the community should give the police the chance to investigate the matter. He said that the community was angry “and we do not have to teach the police what to do. We asked them to speed up the investigation as we now fear mob justice. Meanwhile, we will be assisting the police in gathering information that could help in this case”. Sinthumule said that for people to be angry was natural, but they should not be carried away by emotions. “We need peace in this area, and the only way this can come about is when we as the community work hand in glove with the police,” he said. The spokesperson for the SAPS, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, confirmed the incident and asked community members who might know something to contact the police. “We have opened an inquest docket and we are waiting for the post mortem results,” he said. Raulinga was buried on Thursday at the Ha-Magau cemetery.  The deceased, Mr Calvin Raulinga. Photo supplied.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za