News - Date: 02 June 2020 Written by:  / Viewed: 426 With the lockdown going on for more than 60 days now and the shortage of money and food continuing to hit everyone hard, the best way to beat hunger is to establish a vegetable garden at home instead of buying vegetables daily. This is the advice from Musina resident Emmanuel Mbedzi, whose home-grown vegetables come in handy during the difficult time of the coronavirus pandemic. Mbedzi, who has planted spinach, cabbage, tomatoes, and onions in his backyard, said things used to be very difficult before he established a vegetable garden at home.  He said now that most indigent people did not have any means to live during these difficult times, establishing vegetable gardens at home would be the most favourable step. “I understand that there are people who can afford to buy vegetables in these difficult times. But it is also important to note that there are some community members like me who could not afford to buy vegetables every day. The idea of establishing a vegetable garden at home came to me as I realized that I was spending more money on buying vegetables and I would not be able to afford this going forward. Since I have running water here at home, I then decided to buy vegetable seeds and prepare a small backyard space for planting my vegetables. As of now, I no longer go out to buy but I just turn around and cut a few vegetables that I want to cook for the day.” He encourages less privileged community members to establish their vegetable gardens to fight hunger. “It is not too late to start your vegetable garden at home. This means that if you start yours now, you can save a lot of money that would have been used for buying vegetables. From the look of things, it seems we are still going to live with the coronavirus for some time. The sooner we prepare ourselves, the better. I hope some community members will take lessons from me and start to establish their own vegetable gardens.”  Photographed in his own vegetable garden, Emmanuel Mbedzi of Musina encourages community members to establish their own vegetable gardens to curb hunger during the coronavirus crisis.  Email: