News - Date: 04 June 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 560 A young man who was mistakenly identified by community members as a rapist met his untimely death after an alleged mob-justice attack in Shayandima Zone 1 outside Thohoyandou last Wednesday night. Family member and spokeswoman Ms Mashudu Nematatani said the deceased, Mr Ntanganedzeni Muthevhuli (37) of Lwamondo-Khumbe, had gone to Shayandima Zone 1, where he was assisting his grandmother in her orchard. Last Wednesday evening, the community in Shayandima was allegedly informed about a man who had attempted to rape a young child on the block. Members of the community then found Muthevhuli and allegedly attacked him viciously. He was taken to hospital after the attack but later died, said Nematatani. “We are saddened by his untimely death. The previous day I went to visit him, and we brought to him ground mealie meal as he like it most. We were happy that he was assisting his grandmother with all the work needed in the orchard as he had recently left his job as security guard,” said Nematatani. He was buried in his village cemetery of Lwamondo-Khumbe on Tuesday (this week) The Limpopo-based organisation Munna Ndi Nnyi, through its chairperson, Dr Bardwell Mufunwaini, strongly condemned the act of mob justice and called on community members to refrain from doing such barbaric acts of taking the law into their own hands. Mufunwaini said such acts were wrong, because in some instances innocent people are killed. He urged them to report all forms of crime to the police. Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said the police had been informed of a man who had been seriously injured in the streets of Shayandima that night. “Our members of the police reacted swiftly together with emergency personnel and, on arrival, they found a man lying down with serious injuries. He was then taken to hospital for treatment but later succumbed to his injuries and died,” said Brig Mojapelo. According to Mojapelo, no arrests have been made and the involved suspects are still unknown; police investigations continue. The provincial commissioner of the SAPS in Limpopo, Lt-Gen Nneke Ledwaba, called on the community members to report any criminal activities to the police and not to take the law into their own hands.  The deceased, Mr Ntanganedzeni Muthevhuli (37), was attacked by a mob after they had allegedly identified him as a rapist.  Email: