News - Date: 11 June 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 2350 The Thohoyandou-based school, Liivha Combined School, was forced to close on Monday after a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. Teachers and staff members at the school have been placed in isolation for two weeks. The school was due to open on Monday. Teachers reported for duty two weeks ago and one of them then tested positive for Covid-19. After the teacher received the results and told the principal, an urgent meeting of the school governing body (SGB) was called. The Department of Education was also informed about the situation at the school. A member of the SGB, Mr Jappie Ligege, confirmed that a teacher had tested positive for Covid-19. He said that the teacher had reported that he was not feeling well and decided to see a doctor. He said that the results of the teacher confirmed his positive status last Friday and the teacher was immediately subjected to 14 days of self-quarantine. Urgent consultation has commenced with the Department of Health and the school awaits the date that all the teachers and staff members will be tested for the disease. “Staff members will be going into quarantine, with immediate effect, in terms of legislation.” The parent of a learner at the school, Mr Johnny Khubana, says they have not received any communication from the school management. He says he arrived at the school earlier on Monday, only find the school gate closed. “Schools have been advised on what precautions should be taken, should a positive case be confirmed,” said the spokesperson of the Limpopo Department of Education, Ms Tidimalo Chuene. “As in some instances, only areas needed to be cleaned, while in other cases, officials had to temporarily shut the school to allow a more extensive cleaning of the premises,” she added.   Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za