News - Date: 18 June 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1394 Residents of Gogobole and surrounding areas received the shock of their lives when a gogo and her daughter were shot dead by unknown suspects on Sunday night. The motive behind the brutal attack is still unknown. The deceased have been identified as Gogo Matamela Ramala (90) and her daughter, Martha Ramala (60). Nothing was taken from the house. Four suspects were arrested in connection with the murders. They appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. They are Jeffrey Matshivha (46) of Magau, Muraga Musenwa of Gogobole (24), Dakalo Makhavhu (35) of Tshiozwi and Rodney Moena (28) of Magau. The case was postponed to 25 June for further investigation and a bail application. According to Brig Motlafela Mojapelo of the Limpopo Police, one suspect is still at large. Mojapelo said that, during the incident, the suspects first forced open the door and broke the windows. “We have opened two cases of murder. We plead with the community to come forward with any information that may assist with the arrest of the suspect who is still at large.” The acting provincial commissioner, Maj Gen Jan Scheepers, said that he was saddened to learn “about the horrendous and shocking incident. As police, we remain firm that such selfish actions shall not deter us from our determination to keep our society safe from senseless criminals”. On behalf of the police leadership, they expressed their sincere condolences to the family and friends and wished the families strength and comfort during this difficult period. The family spokesperson, Mr Tshepo Ramala, said that the family had accepted the loss, although it was difficult to cope with. “We understand and accept that our beloved mother and grandmother are gone, and it will be very difficult for us to live without them,” he said. He also thanked the traditional leaders and government members who visited the family for their support during this difficult time. The MEC for Social Development, Nkakareng Rakgoale, accompanied by Makhado Mayor Samuel Munyai, visited the family on Tuesday. Rakgoale said social workers who had been with the Ramala family since the incident had happened would remain with the family to continue to provide support to them during this trying period. Munyai expressed his condolences to the family and said that their loved ones would always be remembered. He said that the family members were totally devastated by the horrific accident. “Understandably, it is very difficult to continue with everyday life after such a traumatic experience and the family needs support,” he said. Anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of the remaining suspect is requested to contact Capt Sheila Buys on 082 565 8432, the Crime Stop number 0860 010 111 or the nearest police station.   Dead: The 90-year-old Ms Martha Ramala (left) and her 60-year-old daughter Ms Martha Ramala (right). Photos supplied. The family spokesperson,Tshepo Ramala, photographed at the window that was broken by the suspects.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za