News - Date: 15 August 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 949 Life has changed for the better for a young comedian, Thabelo Ngwana, after the Faith of Thalita Koum Prophet Ministries in Sibasa under Prophet Innocent Muritho handed over a four-room house to Ngwana on Thursday. Ngwana (29) is better known as Ntumbu in the comedy industry. He resides in Mvelaphanda village in the Vuwani area. He was over the moon when Prophet Muritho, SABC Livhu and some donors handed over the four-room house as part of making life better for those with inadequate housing or no housing at all. According to Ngwana, life was hard because he stayed in a one-room house and used to play and act in some movies. He said that he could not make enough money to enable him to build a proper house for himself. “This is the real achievement in my lifetime and a dream come true because without a proper shelter, our family used to suffer during heavy rains and the freezing winter. Now, the house will also be used as a studio as I have just started an online community radio station,” said Ngwana. He said that he would also invite some young talented comedians, as well as movie and drama actors, to sharpen their skills, which could further help to create jobs. Prophet Muritho said he was born and raised in Phiphidi village and knew how rural communities suffered, and he felt he must help those who cannot afford to do so themselves. He said Ngwana’s house was one of six houses they were building this year and appealed to other businesspeople to help change life for the better for some poor and vulnerable members of society. “We used to help those in need with food parcels and some other basic needs, but building proper houses will help in providing shelter over their heads. It was just the other day that I saw Ngwana’s living conditions on one of his Facebook live videos. The house was not fit for a human being and I acted swiftly,” he said. He added Ngwana’s house was built by one of his companies, Ritha Supply and Projects, which does construction, road marking and signage, among others.    Well-known comedian SABC Livhu (secomd from right) holds the keys of the house to be given to Mr Thabelo Ngwana (second from left), while Mr Zwivhuya Nelwamondo (left),  Prophet Inocent Muritho and Lutendo Ndzeru (right) applaud.  Email: