News - Date: 06 August 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 823 Almost two months after a member of the Nemavhulani royal family, Prince Lufuno Nemavhulani (24), was shot dead and robbed of his vehicle, two suspects, Straightforward Maenda (29) and Gundo Nethonzhe (27), were arrested in connection with the case. Maenda was arrested by staff members of Gwala Security when he allegedly intended to steal on the company’s premises in Shayandima on Wednesday.  After being questioned about his accomplices, Maenda directed them to Tshimbupfe, where Nethonzhe was arrested. The suspects were linked to the murder of Nemavhulani and the one was found driving the stolen car of the late Nemavhulani. The suspects had been in hiding since June after the incident. During the murder, three men allegedly entered the house of the deceased and held up the five family members in the house. They demanded cash and tied up a woman’s hands and legs with shoelaces. When some of the family members resisted, the robbers allegedly started firing indiscriminately. In the process, Nemavhulani was hit in the stomach and died at the scene of the incident. The suspects robbed the victims of their valuable belongings, such as cash and clothes, and a white Nissan1400 vehicle before they fled the scene. The arrest came as good news to the family. “We are somewhat relieved. We are on our way to finding closure in this matter, knowing who killed our beloved Lufuno,” said Mr Mpfariseni Nemavhulani, a family spokesperson. "No one wants to believe the police are doing an outstanding job. We say well done, and we are so thankful for what the police managed to do,". Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said that the police were still looking for another suspect who was still in large. Anyone with information on the whereabouts of the suspect can contact the nearest police station. The accused appeared in the Vuwani Magistrate’s Court last Wednesday and were remanded in custody until 25 August for a bail application.  One of the accused, Straightforward Maenda. Photo supplied.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za