News - Date: 15 August 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 493 A blind pensioner, Mr David Bakali of Maila Lagos, and his family are sharing living and sleeping conditions in a dilapidated shack with no proper floor. The roof of the shack is kept in position with bricks on top and is threatening to fall in on the inhabitants of the shack. The national chairperson of the committee on Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), Ms Faith Muthambi, the Speaker of Makhado Municipality, Ms Lindiwe Mohale, Chief Whip Dorcus Mmbooi and the ward councillor, Nndwamato Malivha, visited the pensioner and inspected his living conditions last Sunday. He said that since 2015, the ward councillor had visited his house three times and asked him to provide a copy of his ID document, but nothing had happened since then. “I have been applying for an RDP house since 2015,” he said. “They said several times that they could not build me a house.” He said his living conditions and displacement were causing him grievous pain. He said that when it rained, they could not sleep. “I wake up and cover my head with a chair to avoid bricks from the roof from falling on me,” he added. “The shack I am staying in is dilapidated and falling apart. I am helpless and penniless as I speak now and will accept any help.” According to sources around the community where he lives, he is well known as one of the poorest people, who deserves every possible form assistance. Bakali accepts that he needs a better life, but the biggest thing he needs is an RDP house as members of his family do not have enough space to sleep. He claims to have been promised a house after the previous election, but till now he has been waiting in vain. Ms Faith Muthambi said she was told by the community of the misery the blind man was going through. “I went to the home, and what I saw was heart-breaking. I found a collapsed piece of shack and imagined the pain he was going through,” said Muthambi. “As government, we have to take care of the poor,” she added. “We have big challenges of unemployment and poverty in our communities.” She appealed to the Makhado Municipality to help the blind man with an RDP house to stay in with his family. A community developer, Mr Peter Ndou, stated that most of the families in the area were unemployed people and they needed assistance from the community. “They did not choose to be poor, and they need to be uplifted by those who can do something for them,” he said. “This blind man has never enjoyed the fruits of freedom and democracy. The old-age grant he gets goes to food and medication and nothing is left.” Ndou appealed to other community members to assist the poor in the development of society and mentioned that donation was based on love and brotherhood. He said that those who could donate bricks, cement and other building materials could call him at 060 949 5764 or 072 708 6786.  The blind pensioner, Mr David Bakali of Maila Lagos, and his family are sharing living and sleeping conditions in a dilapidated shack with no proper floor.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za