News - Date: 13 August 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 174 The case against Councillor Tebogo Mamorobela (39), an executive member of the Makhado Municipal Council, was provisionally withdrawn. Mamorobela, along with two of her friends, appeared in the Louis Trichardt Magistrate’s court earlier this year on charges that they had violated the lockdown regulations. Mamorobela made a first appearance in court in early April, shortly after the national lockdown period commenced. She appeared alongside two of her friends, Harold Muswobi (50) and Khathutshelo Matshusa (33). Muswobi is a businessman and has previously successfully tendered for projects at the municipality, one of which is the disastrous (incomplete) swimming pool project. Mamorobela was captured on video while allegedly visiting some friends. In the video, she can be seen holding a bottle of liquor while dancing, and the people present can be heard mocking the national police commissioner, Bheki Cele. A resolution by the ANC of the Vhembe region was taken that Mamorobela should recuse herself from all activities of the municipality with immediate effect, until the matter was finalised by the court. The spokesperson of the ANC in the Vhembe region, Mr Tshifhiwa Dali, said this week that the disciplinary processes of the ANC were not meant to destroy members but rather to correct them. He said that as far as the judiciary process was concerned, the law must take its course. From what could be established, the cases against the three members were provisionally withdrawn to allow the investigating officers to finish their investigation.  Mamorobela was captured on video while allegedly visiting some friends. In the video, she can be seen holding a bottle of liquor while dancing, and the people present can be heard mocking the national police commissioner, Bheki Cele.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za