News - Date: 02 August 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 428 Vanessa Sikhau (21) of Dzanani hopes to bring home the title of Miss Empress South Africa, an online beauty pageant. Sikhau is a student at Damelin Menlyn and is completing her diploma in marketing and business management. She is passionate about people, ambitious about her goals, and very persistent. She strives to become more than just her name as she endeavours to become a model. “I want to be a model people can look up to, which is why I entered Miss Empress South Africa.” She hopes to capture the hearts and votes of her fellow people in Vhembe. She hopes to inspire many like her who are young and looking to make a change as she comes one step closer to the semi-finals of the contest. She would really appreciate people’s support by their voting for her. Simply SMS Vanessa Sikhau to 35334. An SMS costs R3. "I was born in a very supportive family and my parents encouraged me to take beauty pageants very seriously,” she says. Sikhau is passionate about development in the community and the empowerment of women, which is why she hopes to be a thought leader on femininity and womanhood. “I want to change the stereotype that beautiful women are petite or slim. I started to join beauty pageants when I was still young. I was crowned in many local beauty pageants and, since then, I have told myself that I would like to compete in the Miss South Africa competition one day.” She said that said she was still going to sit down with different traditional leaders around Vhembe to identify organisations that deal with disadvantaged children. She also wants to help identify new models. “This area has a lot of potential. What they need is assistance from those who have the experience, and this is what I will be focussing on,” she said. According to Sikhau, she wants to identify ambassadors for social-responsibility programmes. She also wants “to showcase and promote community charitableness, cultural excellence, awareness, education and unity”.  Vanessa Sikhau hopes to bring home the title of Miss Empress South Africa, an online beauty pageant. Photo supplied.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za