News - Date: 27 March 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1357 Ms Shonisani Tseli (52), the wife of a former member of parliament, Mr Moses Tseli, passed away in the Zoutpansberg Private Hospital last Wednesday after a short illness. She was buried at the Louis Trichardt Cemetery yesterday (Thursday). She attended Tshifhire Primary Ha-Maelula and Solomon Maelula Secondary School and completed her teacher’s diploma at the Ramaano Mbulaheni Training College. She also studied for a higher certificate in ABET, a Bachelor of Education through Unisa and a B Ed Honours in education management at the University of Pretoria. She recently completed her thesis for a master’s degree in education through Unisa. She worked as a temporary employee at Matshavhawe Primary, Molozi Farm School, Solomon Maelula Secondary and Magau Primary School. In 1995, she worked as a Consultant at PSG, and from there she moved to Doves where she worked as a manager. She also served under Independent Electoral Commission during the first democratic election in South Africa. In 2005, she was appointed as ABET educator at Makhado Correctional Services. She was later promoted to sectional head for Polokwane Correctional Services, the position she held until she passed away. Mr Moses Tseli said that the family was in great pain and saddened by her death. He said that the family was proud to have produced “one of the most valuable members of the community”. He added that she had played a big role in uplifting the standard of education in Limpopo. She is survived by her husband and three children.  Ms Shonisani Tseli.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za