News - Date: 06 March 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 1194 A councillor of the Thulamela Municipality, Mr Thivhulawi Jeffery Gundula, and two people suspected of being his accomplices appeared in court on Monday on charges of fraud and corruption. They had allegedly sold South African National Defence Force (SANDF) job application forms. After his release on bail, he only said, “let the justice do its way”. He was speaking outside the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court, where hundreds of his supporters from Makonde village and the surrounding communities had come to support him and the other two accused. Gundula was released on R2 000 bail and the other accused, Mr Fhumulani Nethathe and Ms Khwathelani Rammbuda, on R1 000 each. The accused allegedly defrauded people in Makonde village outside Thohoyandou by selling SANDF job application forms to young and aspiring job seekers wishing to join the defence force. The chairperson of the South African National Civic Organization (Sanco) Thulamela Sub-Region, Mr  Meshack Muvhango, said they had come to court in large numbers to support the three accused because they had been arrested while carrying out Sanco’s programmes of empowering young people with applications for jobs “and we were shocked on their arrests. We want law enforcement to free these comrades, because they are innocent. Law enforcement must look at the murder cases involving people who had gunned down Samwu members in Vhembe. We will always attend court in large numbers in support of them during their trial”. The spokesperson for the ANC in the Vhembe region, Mr Tshifhiwa Dali, said they had learnt with shock and disbelief that one of their trusted comrades had appeared in court for fraud-related matters. “As per the new dawn theme, corruption will never be tolerated; however, our councillor remains innocent until proven guilty. As a region, we shall inform the provincial office on the proposed way forward on the matter,” said Dali. Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the fraud and corruption case against the three and said police investigations were continuing. Their case was postponed to 30 April for further investigation. Meanwhile, Adv Qaphela Frederick Maseko, who is representing the three accused, said that his clients were entitled to bail applications in terms of the Constitution.  The fraud and curruption accused, Ward 10 councillor of Thulamela Cllr Thivhulawi Jeffrey Gundula waves to his supporters after he was released on bail in the Thohoyandou Magistrate's Court on Monday.  Email: