News - Date: 01 March 2020 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 190 A local plus-size model, Tondani Sikhwari, is appealing to businesspeople and members of the community to open their wallets and help her to realise her dream of representing South Africa in an international pageant. After being crowned Miss South Africa Plus World last year in Bloemfontein, the 23-year-old is set to participate in this year's Miss Plus World pageant, which will be held in Dallas in the United States of America (USA) on 5 August. She needs financial assistance. "Since Miss South Africa Plus World is still an upcoming brand, they said that they could only pay for my registration fee, accommodation and meals. My responsibility is to pay for my own return flight ticket, visa applications, garments and make-up," she said. "My total expenses are R30 000. I call for help from South Africans at large to assist me in any way they can to make my dream come true. I want to bring the crown home and be one of South Africa's rising black models." Some opportunities only come once in a lifetime, she said. "I have worked hard to be where I am today, and it would be a heartache for me to let such an opportunity pass by." She started modelling in 2009 when she was a learner at Tshivhase Secondary School. According to her, one's body does not define who one is. "Your body should not set limitations on your passion, ambitions and aspirations in life. Your inner beauty unleashes your outer beauty," she said. She studied LLB at the University of Venda. To support her, contact 071 553 6335 or write to rtsikhwari@gmail.com.  Tondani Sikhwari needs financial assistance for her USA trip. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: