News - Date: 23 March 2020 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 487 A local businesswoman, Ms Livhuwani Patricia Nemaungani, who is popularly known as Livhuki in business circles, is beaming with satisfaction and celebration after she received an award in agro processing during the Business Woman Awards that were recently held in Tzaneen at Karibi Lodge. The awards were hosted by the Limpopo Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism. She scooped up a trophy and a R15 000 cash prize for her delicious mukusule (dried vegetables). “I am so happy that I was awarded for the good work that had become part of my life,” she said. “This is also an indication that being in agriculture is a good move in that we get to feed the nation.” She said that, with her mukusule, she started from planting the seedlings, harvesting, processing and then branding and packaging. “There's no shortcut in this kind of business – you need to ensure that you package fresh muroho and in order to have the fresh one, you plant it yourself,” she said. Livhuki runs Madidingwe Security and Projects, which offers both modern and traditional food restaurant in Louis Trichardt, and farming products from Ramavhoya village in Nzhelele. “I introduced mukusule processing in my business in 2018 after realising that, in winter, fresh muroho straight from the farm is in short supply since everyone would be selling it,” she said. “I then started selling freshly packaged dried muroho. So, the processing of mukusule is termed a value chain.” She also distributes her mukusule to Spar Louis Trichardt and Livhuki Traditional Restaurant in Louis Trichardt. Livhuki had previously won numerous farming and youth-in-business awards for her farming expertise, and the prizes had served as a motivation for her to work even harder. She is an entrepreneur who believes that in order to preserve a business enterprise, one needs to work hard and have a strong, motivated team. “For my farm and restaurant, I have 10 full-time employees and 15 part-time ones,” she said. “I am glad that I am fighting unemployment in our area.” Those interested in Livhuki's projects can call her on 079 809 4004.  Livhuwani Patricia Nemaungani (second from left) is seen here displaying mukusule with some of her employees (from left to right) Tsumbedzo Netshakhuma, Fhatuwani Maduguma and Brenda Nematanda.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com