News - Date: 08 March 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 547 The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Njabulo Nzuza, visited Tshilidzini Hospital on Friday as part of a fact-finding mission to look at service delivery in one of their identified points based in the hospital. The office is used for, among others, registering births of new-born babies as well people who died while being treated in the hospital. He was joined by the MEC for Health, Dr Phophi Ramathuba, the CEO of the hospital, Ms Marubini Ndwammbi, the hospital board chairperson, Rev Dr Alunamutwe Randitsheni, and the Speaker of the Vhembe District Municipality, Cllr Freda Nkondo. They toured some wards of the hospital, accessing service delivery his department was offering. He also handed over birth certificates to some mothers of new-born babies. He said that it was their right to have certificates as these would help them access government services such as child-support grants. “We found out that some mothers went out of the hospital without registering the birth of their new-born babies because the fathers of the children were not available. We want to change life for the better for our communities, and we urged them to access government services right at their doorsteps,” said Nzuza. Ms Marubini Ndwammbi was excited about the visit by the national home affairs department, saying it would help to cement the relationship they had developed with the department some 13 years ago. Dr Randitsheni stated during the visit that the hospital had shortages of beds and space in the rooms where mothers stayed when waiting to give birth and the urged government to look at the matter urgently, as their hospital was a regional referral hospital and without enough beds and space, life would not be conducive for them.  The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Njabulo Nzuza (centre), joined by the MEC for Health, Dr Phophi Ramathuba (left) and the CEO of Tshilidzini Hospital, Ms Marubini Ndwammbi, during his visit to the hospital to access service delivery his department was offering.  Email: