News - Date: 19 April 2020 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 556 The 24-year-old Patience Chauke is the epitome of hard work and this is evinced in the initial success she has achieved as a model. She has so far appeared more than 10 TV shows and dramas. A technical support student at iCOLLEGE’s Thohoyandou Campus, Patience always wanted to become a model, even during her days at Shingwedzi Secondary School. In her Grade 9 year, the school made an announcement about the Miss Limpopo contest and encouraged pupils to enter. “Entrants were required to write an essay about themselves. A lot of us wrote those essays, but, sadly, we didn’t submit them.” The interesting part about Patience’s initial story of the essay writing is that it had fuelled her passion to become a model. “When I moved to Boksburg to pursue my studies, my friend Lungile Makondo introduced me to a young lady known as Tsakani Nwa'helezani,” she said. “Here was a full-fledged model who knew the pros and cons of the industry. She shared with me the experiences and knowledge of the art of modelling.” From that point on, Patience was ready to face the world, and she started looking for a modelling agency, so that she could belong. “I got some agencies who noticed my talent and we worked together to create some TV adverts, and I also appeared on some on-screen shows as an extra,” she said. “I have been on Generations the Legacy, Muvhango, SkeemSaam, Rhythm City, Highrollers, Greed and Desire, Tempypushas, Zabalaza, and Sestop'la. “I am a commercial model and aspiring actress who would like to land a lead role in one of the heart-breaking dramas or movies,” she said. “I will surely make it to the top.” She stated that she had mastered the art of dealing with rejection and had not let rejection steal her hope and zeal to keep trying. “If you want to make it in this industry, you have to brace yourself for rejection,” she said. “Don’t take anything personally – those who generally succeed are able to handle continual rejections. There are a number of top models and actresses who had plenty of noes before they developed a full, thriving modelling career. Persistence and determination can go a long way in this industry.” Patience is also a co-founder of Miss Angelic, together with Murendeni Muvhali.  “I put God first in whatever I do, which is why I'm always ready to meet new challenges,” she said. She can be reached on Facebook (Patience Boitumelo Pearly Boity), Facebook page (Patience the model), Instagram (@patience_boitumelo_pearly_boit) and Twitter (@patience chauke)  Patience Chauke. Photo supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com