News - Date: 13 April 2020 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 3038 The Limpopo Health MEC, Dr Phophi Ramathuba and Transport and Community Safety MEC, Ms Mavhungu Lerule Ramakhanya, are visiting several shops and taxi ranks in the Soutpansberg area today to monitor people’s compliance to the Covid-19 lockdown regulations. It included a visit to the mall and taxi rank at Elim, as well as the taxi rank in Louis Trichardt. The past week saw the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases for Limpopo increase. According to the Limpopo Department of Health, as of 9 April Limpopo had recorded 24 cases. This included two cases for Makhado, the newest being a 9-year-old girl who tested positive. Also, four cases were confirmed for the Thulamela (Thohoyandou) area, bringing Vhembe’s total confirmed cases to six. Three of the infections are listed as “local”, meaning that the patients did not recently travel to high-risk countries. With the news of President Cyril Ramaphosa extending the lockdown period for South Africa to 30 April, government has intensified their public screening operations for the virus. This is also true for Limpopo. Regarding the above, the Limpopo Department of Health have released their Covid-19 household screening schedule from 14 April to 24 April for the Vhembe area. According to the department’s provincial spokesperson, Mr Neil Shikwambana, the screening will be done via a door-to-door campaign. For Louis Trichardt, the Covid-19 screening will take place on 14 April, while screening will be done in Eltivillas on 15 April. Next will be Louis Trichardt (New Town) on 16 April, and Tshikota on 17 April. Musina town will be screened on 14 April, Nancefield on 15 April and Campbell on 16 April. Levubu will be screened on 17 April. For the complete Covid-19 screening schedule, click HERE. Limpopo Health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba (left) demonstrates the correct way to wash your hands during her visit to the Elim mall on Monday morning. Photo: Limpopo Department of Health.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za