News - Date: 18 April 2020 Written by:  / Viewed: 487 Early in February this year, we published a story about a talented self-taught engineer, Rekkie Moyo of Musina, who built his own car with discarded materials. Moyo has taken things a step further by using his talent to add his voice to the war against the spread of the coronavirus. He has now repainted his home-made car and displays messages of awareness against the spread of the virus. Some of the messages displayed on the car include Covid 19, Wash your hands with soap, SA on lockdown, Thank you SANDF for being on our street to protect our nation, Corona Virus kills and Respect SA’s president’s words. As if that was not enough, Moyo also designed and fitted the car with a water tank, a basin to wash hands, a toilet-paper holder and a dust bin to discard the toilet paper. Amazingly, the water tank and the tap are controlled by an electronic button that is fitted in the car. He said the water in the tank was sanitised and he allowed everyone to wash hands at his car. “Government alone cannot win this war against the coronavirus. It is up to us as community members to play a role. Because my car is the centre of attraction wherever I go, I thought it would be important to paint it with awareness messages about the virus. When people come to see the car, they are forced to read the messages and, at the same time, I encourage them to wash their hands in the basin that is attached to the car. At the same time, I make sure that they observe social distancing. I just press a button and sanitised water comes out of the tap. After people wash their hands, I encourage them to dry their hands with the attached toilet paper and throw the used pieces in the provided bin to keep the environment clean. This is very effective because people love my car.” He encourages other community members to use whatever opportunity possible to fight the coronavirus. “If you are an artist, use your art to spread the message. If we come together as a nation, we will definitely defeat this virus and our country will go back to normality again.” Moyo first made a name for himself when he built a 2010 soccer world cup car, which was featured in the FIFA World Cup book. In 2012, he built a very comfortable, battery-powered wheelchair that he donated to a local disabled man. His latest car, which is powered by a Ford V8 engine, goes by the name Kandamu, which is a combination of the letters of the names of his children.  Self-taught engineer Rekkie Moyo of Musina washes his hands at a tap and basin attached to his home-made car as a way to curb the spread of the coronavirus.  Email: