News - Date: 13 January 2020 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 7064 The 21-year-old Mpho Gift Matodzi was crowned Miss Venda Plus Size 2019/20 during a beauty pageant held at the Thohoyandou Indoor Sports Centre a fortnight ago. Matodzi said she felt ecstatic about being crowned the queen. "I am happy to be the face of Miss Venda Plus Size. It is overwhelming and I feel like a conqueror." She was also crowned Miss Venda Plus Size Public Choice. "I felt that it is time I stop social comments from society about body shaming," Matodzi said. "As I was growing, I have experienced bullying and it is hard and very emotional to open up about what is depressing now. I think it is time I change the stereotype that beautiful women are only petite or slim. Plus-size women are also beautiful with different amazing talents that a lot of people have not yet realized. That is why I believe that women should not be boxed in one type of beauty. Entering this competition has definitely changed someone’s mind who already thinks she’s not beautiful enough." Matodzi hails from Makonde village and she is currently studying for a BA in Media Studies at the University of Venda. Ungedzani Begwa is the first princess, Thikho Khakhu second princess, Thendo Daniella Nemudzivhadi Miss Entrepreneur, Gundo Mugaga Miss Personality, and Elelwani Mpho Mphego Miss Ambassador. The pageant was started in 2017 with the aim of developing and improving plus-size models’ self-esteem and public speaking, said the founder, Nadney Mulaudzi. "We want to empower, encourage and give opportunity to plus-size women to showcase their beauty. We believe that size has nothing to do with beauty; everyone is beautiful," he said.  Mpho Gift Matodzi was also crowned Miss Venda Plus Size Public Choice. Photo supplied by Nadney Mulaudzi.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: