News - Date: 25 January 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 737 A love affair between a 23-year-old man and a much older woman turned into a nightmare when the woman and her mother allegedly set fire to the young man in a jealous frenzy. From what could be established, the young man from Ravele was involved in a relationship with a 38-year-old woman from Ramahantsha. The community often refers to such young male lovers as “Ben 10s”. Following a party on Saturday night, the man was accused by his older lover of cheating on her with another girl. The woman’s 59-year-old mother apparently joined in the tiff, which then became violent. According to a police report, the woman and her mother doused the young lover with petrol and set him alight. The man was seriously injured and had to be rushed to the Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital for emergency treatment. He was later transferred to Polokwane for treatment at the provincial hospital. A neighbour, who asked not to be named, told Limpopo Mirror that she saw smoke billowing from the property and realised that something was on fire. “I went outside and found the woman who had allegedly started the fire, fuming and swearing at the top of her voice. She told me she wanted to burn her cheating boyfriend with petrol and teach him a lesson,” the neighbour said. The 38-year-old Muyahabo Sadiki and her mother, Johanna Sadiki (59), were arrested by the police. They appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday, facing charges of assault and attempted murder. The case was postponed to 27 January for further investigation. Johanna was released on bail of R2 000, but her daughter, Muyahabo, was remanded in custody.   Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za