News - Date: 25 January 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 820 Speaker after speaker described the late businessman, philanthropist, and minister of the Apostolic Faith Church of Portland Oregon, pastor Johannes Mapfumo-Netshiungani of Shakadza village in the Niani area, as a man who gave what he had to the needy and encouraged young people to take education seriously. One of his sons, Mr Isaac Mapfumo-Netshiungani, said his father had been a giant and a pioneer in business and had done many things for his community of Shakadza and surrounding communities. He had helped poor people and payed the tuition fees of learners at tertiary level. “Our father inherited many children, not his own blood children, stayed with them and took care and helped them to further their education, some up to tertiary education. We saw him as a man of love, who also taught us some business skills, the ones we are using in advancing our businesses,” said Mapfumo-Netshiungani. Pastor Mapfumo-Netshiungani (80) passed away two weeks ago in Thohoyandou after a long illness and was buried in his home village cemetery in Shakadza on Saturday. Thousands of people from all corners of the area and as far as Gauteng attended the funeral. Pastor Edwin Mashau of the church’s branch in Nzhelele said he wanted the children of the late Mapfumo-Netshiungani to continue making the businesses of their father grow bigger and bigger and the pastors who had served under him to continue making the church grow as they did not want the church to stop operating because the founder was no more. Reading the obituary, Mr Malachia Nemalale said the late Mapfumo-Netshiungani had worked hard to develop his village of Shakadza. He started his businesses back in 1976, and developed restaurants, shops, supermarkets, petrol stations and his brickyard, which was the first of its kind in Niani area. “On his way, he started to love God dearly and followed his ways. He started with the Zion Church and later founded the Apostolic Faith Church of Portland Oregon in Shakadza village in 1979 and was the pastor until he passed away.” The late Mapfumo-Netshiungani is survived by his wife, Ms Elisa Mapfumo, and four children, David, Tshisa, Isaac and Tshifhiwa.  The late well-known businessman, philantrophist and church pastor, Johannes Mapfumo-Ntshiungani.  Email: