News - Date: 31 January 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1716 The killing of a woman at Musina on Saturday caused different structures to call for an end to violence. Ms Tshamaano Sehlare (35) of Rabali Posaito Zone 2 was allegedly killed by her boyfriend at Musina Matswale phase 7. Sehlare was reportedly fighting with her boyfriend in their rented room when she was killed. She was allegedly strangled and stabbed in the head with a sharp object. Her lifeless body was discovered by the owner of the house, who went to the house to investigate since she had heard a fight the previous night. A bloodied knife was apparently also found in the house. Family representative Ms Muhanganei Sehlare said that the family was saddened by the death. She said that the family and community were traumatised. “We lost a family member. She was our breadwinner, and she cannot be replaced,” she said. She said that the family was very poor and asked good Samaritans who can help by donating groceries and whatever is necessary to assist in the arrangement of the funeral. The chairperson of Riri Sengani Foundation, Ms Rinae Sengani, said whoever had killed the woman was not a real man. “Real men do not kill; they do not rape their women but give comfort and security to them. Let us all shout out in one voice against the abuse and cruelty perpetrated against our womenfolk, and this country will be a better place to live in.” The police’s Brig, Motlafela Mojapelo said that the police had arrested a man, the 38-year-old Thivhalitshi Madzivhe. He is facing a charge of murder and appeared in the Musina Magistrate’s Court on Monday. The case was postponed to 3 February for a bail application. Tshamaano will be buried on Sunday at Rabali. The service will start at 06:00 at her home.  Died: Ms Tshamaano Sehlare.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za