News - Date: 17 January 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1199 A new chief for Tshidzini Village, Nthetsheleseni Muntswu, was inaugurated during a ceremony at the Tshidzini kraal a fortnight ago. The ceremony was attended by hundreds of community members and traditional leaders clad in traditional attire. When he installed the new chief, Thovhele Vho-Gole Mphaphuli said it was important that the residents of Tshidzini have a chief for the sake of proper governance. “We need development in the whole village,” he said. Mphaphuli added residents should not have to travel far to get services. Quoting from the Bible, Mphaphuli urged the new chief to be humble and to listen to advice from the family and elders of the village. “Expectations are high from the community and this will need you to be dedicated. Do not undermine the family as they have the right to remove you from your position, and please let us work together for the benefit of our people,” added Mphaphuli. The informal channel manager of Cell C &Traditional Leader project manager in Limpopo, Ms Bonny Mackay, advised the new chief to be aware of the needs of the community and to work alongside the government. She added that community members must respect the new leader. Chief Muntswu indicated that he was looking forward to working together with the community members of Tshidzini. He added that the community had to expect good things that he was planning to bring for the community in the village. “I am also going to encourage traditional dances, to restore the traditional values of the Vha-Venda people,” he outlined, adding that he was also ready to work with the police in terms of reduction of crime in the village.  Second from left is the new chief, Nthetsheleseni Muntswi, and next to him stands Thovhele Vho-Gole Mphaphuli. They are surrounded by guests.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za