News - Date: 27 January 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 683 The top pupils of Kutama High received cash prizes and trophies in recognition of outstanding performances and hard work as reflected in their 2019 results. The award ceremony was held at Kutama Community Hall last Thursday.

The principal of the school, Mr Tshiila Ramovha, said the rewards were meant to encourage pupils to work hard to improve education in the school. “We have seen positive results since we started the idea of the award ceremony some years ago. The awards create a spirit of hard work and this helps in the improvement of results in our schools.” He urged members of the community to encourage learners to stick to education as it benefited their and the community’s future in the long run. The circuit manager of Soutpansberg West Circuit, Ms Christina Ramovha, encouraged the youth to take education seriously, so that they can learn to face the challenges of the future. She encouraged the parents to cooperate with the Department of Education and other stakeholders for the benefit of education in the country. She said setting up realistic goals that could be achieved within a given period in life was important. “The time of pointing fingers is over. We must join hands to create a better life for our children,” said Chief Peter Kutama. He further advised pupils to have a study timetable that stated when and what they would be studying. “It can help you feel more organised and more at ease. Also, make sure not to try and memorise and parrot-learn everything, but instead strive to understand subjects. Healthy eating habits are a priority during the exams,” he said. The top learner who obtained six distinction in the recent Grade 12 results, Tracy Madima, said pupils should not choose careers because of peer pressure. “I think choosing a career must be an individual's own decision. Pupils must also consider their hobbies and other things when they choose careers. They must remember that choosing a career is a decision they have to live with for the rest of their lives,” she said. Madima said that she was going to study medicine at University of Cape Town. Pupils were rewarded according to their achievement in various learning areas. One pupil who received a reward was last year’s top Grade 11 pupil, Unarine Ratombo. The top learner, Tracy Madima, went home with R15 000 and a flight ticket, Madambi Kutama collected R2 000 and Mpho Ramabubuda received R1 000.  Photographed are, from left to right, Mr Tshiila Ramovha (principal), Chief Peter Kutama, Unarine Ratombo, Ms Christina Ramovha and Bishop George Ramatshimbila. From left to right are are Gogo Makwarela Thovhakale, Mr Tshiila Ramovha (school principal), Chief Peter Kutama, top pupil Tracy Madima, circuit manager of Soutpansberg West Circuit Ms Christina Ramovha and Bishop George Ramatshimbila.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za