News - Date: 20 January 2020 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 1407 South Africa is no longer a safe place for women and children to live in. Many of them are being kidnapped, raped and killed daily, said a co-founder of the organisation The Movement, Mr Phatu Madima. In an effort keep women and children safe, a group of five young people who call themselves The Movement have designed a schoolbag with a built-in panic button, called Navigator, which will play a vital role in curbing the scourge of kidnappings and killings. Madima said: “…the bag has a sim card and a caller option that sends the location of the victim. The reason why we created this bag is to reduce the ever-increasing number of kidnappings of children in our country. The bag has a panic button which is connected to the phone. Basically, when the parents buy the bag, we take the cellphone number of the parent or legal guardian and connect it to the panic button”. "The panic button can alert you on your cellphone when your kid or wife is in danger and sends you a location. It also has a call option where you just call the panic button to check on your child. We are losing our sisters, aunts and mothers every day. We just need a way to protect them and save them from being kidnaped, raped and killed," he added. He said making the bag was not easy. "We are group of young boys and we don't have money," he said. "We are doing everything by ourselves, but now we are looking for anyone who wants to help us or invest in this African dream. We are seeking financial assistance from businesspeople and the government." He can be reached on 067 164 7259.  The co-founder of The Movement, Phatu Madima. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: