News - Date: 19 January 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 429 Thovhele Ratshibvumo II Rammbuda said that a village without a traditional leader was doomed. By installing a new chief for Domboni la Ha-Rammbuda, it meant that communities would have a leader to whom they must report their grievances without fear. “From today onwards, the communities in Domboni must come here at the chief’s kraal to get services such as the official stamp of the traditional leader when applying for an identity document or opening new bank accounts, amongst others. I urge you to respect the new chief, because he has been given power to rule by me as senior traditional leader in Ha-Rammbuda,” added Thovhele Rammbuda. Rammbuda was speaking on Saturday, shortly after he had installed Chief Nditsheni Malise as new traditional leader of Domboni la Ha-Rammbuda village near Madimbo. He urged the new chief to dedicate himself to serve his communities without taking sides as he would be the chief of all the people. During the ceremony, Ms Dzulani Ndou was named khadzi and Mr Erick Malise was named ndumi. In response Chief Nditsheni Malise pledged to give his dedication in serving the community, seeking wisdom from God to rule without taking any side. Malise said the communities in his area were suffering from travelling long distances to places such as Madimbo and Musina to access government services and urged the Musina Municipality to install electricity at the offices in his villages, so that his communities could get services. Representing the traditional leaders of Ha-Rambuda, Chief Nndavheleseni Netshitandani welcomed the new chief in the Ha-Rammbuda Tribal Council. He urged him to attend the imbizo, which is normally held in the Thovhele’s kraal in Dzimauli village, just a stone’s throw from his village, regularly.      Thovhele Ratshibvumo II Rammbuda (second from left), the newly installed traditional leader of Domboni la Ha- Rammbuda, Chief Nnditsheni Malise and Chief Rembuluwani Nduvheni of Ngalavhani village, photographed with some well-wishers after the ceremony.  Email: