News - Date: 04 December 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 1332 “I don’t help someone with blood on his hands. I mean someone who has killed another person. It is evil and I will never make that mistake, because my ancestors cannot allow that,” said Vho-Nyawasedza Sidimela. Sidimela (78) is a traditional healer from Mufulwi village near Matavhela in the Mutale area. She is also the one who guided the police to arrest the suspect who had allegedly killed a policeman from Mutale on Friday. Sidimela told Limpopo Mirror in an exclusive interview earlier this week how Muvhuso Morgan Nyadzani (23), the man accused of murdering W/O Mbulaheni Mulanduli (57), arrived at her consulting room this weekend. He was accompanied by his uncle, Azwihangwisi Nethengwe (36). “I was still fast asleep on Sunday morning when one of my granddaughters awoke me at about 6:00, saying there were two young men who needed the help of a sangoma. When we entered the room, I asked which one of the two needed my help, as I am a sangoma who helps and sometimes cures people of dangerous diseases,” said Sidimela. According to her, a man, who identified himself by the name of Muvhuso Nyadzani from Makwilidza village near Thengwe, told her that he was the one who had killed the police officer in Mutale. Various media, including the radio, had reported on the matter since Friday. Nyadzani told her that he needed muti for cleansing, so that his murder charge could be squashed or completely be dissolved. “I pretended as if I would help him - first with muti to cleanse his body, so that the real herbs should find a clean stomach. Little did he know that I was only using tactics to delay him, so that the police may come and arrest him and his uncle,” Sidimela said. She said she went outside (while Nyadzani was being ‘cleansed’) and told one of her grandchildren, who, with the aid of community members, alerted the police. The police came swiftly and seized and arrested Nyadzani and his uncle. Her son, Thomeni Sidimela, who is also a member of the Mutale Community Policing Forum (CPF), described his mother as “a hero” and a true traditional healer who does not just care about money by giving muti to someone who could be dangerous.  The well-known traditional healer, Vho-Nyawasedza Sidimela from the Matavhela area in Mutale, explains how she assisted the police in arresting the man accused of murdering the late W/O Mbulaheni Mulanduli. Photographed with her is her son, Thomeni Sidimela.  Email: