News - Date: 20 December 2020 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 821 A resident from Thohoyandou has initiated an organisation that cares for the needs of pregnant women and single mothers in society. Tshanduko Faith Nemutanzhela, founder and chairperson of Pregnant with a Purpose (PWP), explained that the organisation strived to take care of pregnant women out of wedlock by ensuring that they were empowered holistically. “We aim to support pregnant women and single mothers materially, while we also help them to find skills to equip them, in order for them to take care of themselves,” she said. “Once they are able to earn a living, either through employment or self-employment, they are in a position to function fully in society without having to depend on anyone else.” Nemutanzhela said that single mothers had been identified as the target group for the initiative. “However, we are all for women empowerment holistically, as well as in all other areas of their lives,” she said. She started extending basic needs to pregnant women and single mothers two years ago. “We strive to awaken women to their purpose on earth and raising the awareness that a woman is not just a ‘tool’ for reproduction,” she said. “We also support pregnant and single mothers with basic needs, such as baby wipes, new-born baby clothes, baby powder, baby lotion, bath soaps, baby shawls or blankets, bibs, formula milk, baby bottles, maternity pads, methylated spirits, and nappies.” Pregnant with a Purpose does not have a physical location yet, but the main branch is in Thohoyandou. “We have branches in Johannesburg, Pretoria, North-West, Rustenburg and Polokwane (Ga-Mphahlele),” she said. People who are interested in the activities of Pregnant with a Purpose or are able to support this cause can contact Nemutanzhela on Tel 079 761 9585.  Tshanduko Faith Nemutanzhela, founder and chairperson of Pregnant with a Purpose (PWP). Picture supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com