News - Date: 12 December 2020 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 257 The 17-year-old Zelda Mutshotsho was crowned as 2020’s fairest maiden at the annual Miss Angelic pageant that was held in Malamulele on Saturday, 28 November. Zelda, a Grade-11 pupil from the Liivha Combined School and resident at Maniini in Thohoyandou, says she has loved modelling ever since she was a child and family members labelled her “that kind of a kid who always needed people’s attention”. “Growing up, I needed a platform where everybody could see or identify me,” she says. “I always wanted to stand out in a crowd.” In 2019, her friend Ntanganedzeni Nelushi introduced her to the world of modelling, and she was eager and ready to face every challenge. “Ntanganedzeni taught me everything that I needed to know about modelling, from how to walk to how to pose.” Last year, she was crowned Miss Tshisahulu Teen 2019. “To me that was a big achievement because I managed to stand and speak in front of a fully packed hall,” she says. “That taught me that I can actually use this platform to inspire young ladies out there. No matter from what background or what obstacles you are facing, stand tall. Let no obstacle define you. Believe in yourself.” Zelda shared this year’s stage with 19 other beautiful young ladies and says she is very grateful to everyone for the opportunity. “I sincerely want to thank my mother, my family and friends who always supported me and had my back throughout this journey.” Ntlakusiso Mabunda (16) was crowned first princess, while Nxumalo Langelihle Basani (16) stepped into the second princess’s shoes. The Miss Angelic pageant is hosted by Patience Chauke, who says that Miss Angelic is not only about beauty but also a platform for young girls who are interested in modelling, to give them a place they can call home. “Our work is to groom ladies who want to do modelling by equipping them with enough confidence and techniques to take them to the highest level,” Chauke said.  Zelda Mutshotsho was crowned Miss Angelic 2020 during a glittering event held in Malamulele on Saturday, 29 November. Picture supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com