News - Date: 11 December 2020 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 385 Livhuwani Mulaudzi just keeps soaring higher and higher. Only a few months ago, Limpopo Mirror shared a story on this executive of finance and operations for the South African Board for People’s Practices. Now Livhuwani has graduated with a master’s degree in business administration (MBA) at the Regenesys Business School. For Livhuwani - who is also known as Livhu M the ‘Hustlepreneur’ - her quest for knowledge started many years ago when she had ideas to run her own business and inspire people around her. “I was so pumped up with energy and the desire to establish myself in society, while also adding value to the lives of fellow human beings,” said Livhuwani, who described herself as a voracious reader of good literature. “As a result, I started a developmental magazine when I was in high school. It was called Da Opener and it carried stories on motivation, career information, teenage pregnancy, and substance-abuse awareness. I wanted to inspire other youths and adults alike to see the light of life.” She has always loved business and remembers how she used to help her grandmother sell crushed nuts, mukusule and sweets at Khubvi village. “I was so young then, but the old lady brushed her love for business into my skin,” she said. Livhuwani, who runs Dzashu Holdings, which supplies fruit and vegetables among other services, holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of Johannesburg, an honours degree in business management from the Gordon Institute of Business Sciences (GIBS) and other field-related qualifications, achievements, and recognitions. Livhuwani also co-runs a business with her husband, which focuses on farming, farming business development, agro processing and business and tax advisory services. “We currently have Serrano chili and Okra at the one farm and cabbage at the other. However, we are also looking to expand our produce to increase production. We are in the process of partnering with more farmers, investors and relevant stakeholders in order to create sustainable employment and offer other SMMEs (small, medium and micro entrepreneurs) business opportunities.” During the course of completing her MBA programme, she had relocated to two different provinces. At one stage she got very ill, lost some of her assets and other relations. “But I now look back with a smile of gratitude to God for all the sustenance and guidance through the darkest days of my life,” she said. She said she had tried three or four times to defer her studies, but that her educational programme manager and supervisor would not hear of it. “They all said I was too smart to quit and that they couldn’t allow me to do that.” Livhuwani looks forward to helping more young people realise their dreams.  Livhuwani Mulaudzi just keeps soaring higher and higher. Picture supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com