News - Date: 21 February 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 748 Matodzi Annah Magwala, who has been the interim headwoman at Gogobole since 2008, was told by the Polokwane High Court last week to relinquish her position as traditional leader. She may no longer perform any of the customary functions, such as the granting of occupational rights, and she may not receive any gifts as headwoman. On Friday, 7 February, an interdict was granted to prohibit Magwala from carrying on as headwoman in Gogobole. The interdict was asked for by Chief Rudzani Harold Sinthumule, Nyamukamadi Mukondi Mukhuba (the makhadzi) and the Gogobole royal family. In court documents presented, Magwala argued that she had been correctly identified as the caretaker headwoman by the royal family in 2008. She is the daughter of the late Vho-Makhadzi Matamela Ramabulana, the former headwoman. “She was further nominated to assume the function of regent until she was recognised as a traditional leader,” summarized Judge Gerrit Muller in his judgment. What exactly caused Magwala’s fall-out with the Gogobole royal family is not mentioned in the court papers. The judge also did not want to express an opinion on who the successor should be, and he opted to focus on the processes that should have been followed. In her defence, Magwala’s legal team argued that the traditional council had never submitted the necessary documents to the premier of the province to legitimize her appointment as headwoman. “It cannot be stressed enough that the parties should utilise the mechanisms put in place to resolve these disputes. They should put the interests of their communities above their self-interest. It is, after all, the interests of the community that they must serve. Not resolving the disputes serves only to divide their community,” the judge said. The parties were allowed a week after the evidence was concluded to try and find an amicable solution, but this seemingly did not happen. The judge subsequently made a ruling on the evidence before the court, which indicated that Magwala had never been properly registered in terms of the relevant laws as a traditional leader. Such leaders must firstly be identified by the royal family and then recognised by the premier. “Without recognition, such a person is simply not a traditional leader in terms of the provisions of the Limpopo Act and, consequently, not a headman or headwoman,” the judge said. The court ruling was welcomed by the Sinthumule royal family and their spokesperson, Vhamusanda Vho-Mbulaheni Ramabulana, said it favoured both parties because the court had not tried to appoint a new leader. “A chieftainship is not something that can be inherited. It is the property of the royal family, who act as its custodians,” he said. Ramabulana said that a meeting had been held last Wednesday in Gogobole. During this meeting, it was explained to the community that the court had ruled that Matamela Annah Magwala had been removed as leader. Her elder sister, Vho-Nyamukamadi Mukondi Mukhuba, was introduced as the new Khadzi, who will serve as acting headwoman at Gogobole while the royal family decides who will be the rightful new leader at the village. Generic image.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za