News - Date: 28 February 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 634 Hundreds of angry residents of Tswinga and surrounding area attended Monday’s court hearing and bayed for the blood of the suspect arrested in connection with the rape of five minor children between the ages of 4 and 10. The suspect was beaten by members of the community and rescued by the police, who saved his life. The 43-year-old suspect made a quick appearance in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court and his case was postponed to 29 June for further investigations. He was also said to be linked to another rape case of a minor. Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said that all the victims were allegedly forced by the suspect to his place of residence where he had allegedly raped them. Community members received information about him, caught him and started to assault him. The police were alerted and reacted swiftly. The suspect was then rescued and arrested by the police on Sunday. Mojapelo has strongly condemned the incidents and has instructed members of the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit to tighten all the screws when investigating the cases to ensure a successful prosecution. The chairperson of Sanco in Tswinga, Mr David Phadagi, advised women and children to always make sure that they do not walk near the bushes or go into dark places on their own. “I further urge all victims of abuse to report all incidents to the police,” he said. “Even when the abuser is the sole breadwinner in your house, report them to the police because that person might end up killing you and your children.” He said a lot of crime took place in the area, which needed residents to work in close cooperation with the police. “Ugly situations like these could be averted if criminals are locked away for a long time. Residents are angry, but we make an appeal that people do not take the law into their own hands." A member of the community who preferred to remain anonymous said for the alleged rapist to have been beaten and arrested by the police was a good thing. “These criminals think they can do as they wish in the community. We are tired of crime and the rule of law is taking us nowhere. Beating or killing them will send a strong message out there that whoever wants to indulge in crime should think twice before doing that,” she said. Ms Rinae Sengane of the Rinae Sengane Foundation said: “Although we know that the law will take its own course, we are worried because rape cases of children and women are increasing daily. We will never rest until we win this war against these cruel people who live by raping children and women.”     Generic image.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za