News - Date: 21 February 2020 Written by: Bernard Chiguvare / Viewed: 397 The conflict within the Ravele Communal Property Association (CPA) seems to be far from resolved. The CPA’s annual general meeting, scheduled to take place on 8 February, was disrupted and had to be postponed again. A group from within the CPA members, calling themselves the Concerned Group, voiced their discontent with the process of verifying members, as well as the building of a community hall on land that does not belong to the CPA. One of the Concerned Group’s members, Mr Aifheli Bvumbi, explained that the meeting was disrupted after the chairperson of the CPA did not want to provide an opportunity for some beneficiaries to raise concerns or ask questions. Bvumbi said that the beneficiaries had voiced their dissatisfaction with the way the CPA was being run. A document was also compiled to set out many of their grievances. In the document, one of the points raised is the building of a community hall on land that belongs to the Ravele family and not the Ravele CPA. The group argue that the consent to build the hall was not properly acquired among all the role players. Speaking to Limpopo Mirror, Itani Ravele from the royal family said that she was not convinced that the hall should be built at the chief’s kraal. “It should be built within (the property of) Mauluma Enterprise. Where they are building the hall is my father’s place. They should have consulted the family first,” she said. “A place of stay cannot be a place of entertainment at the same time,” she added. The concerned group previously stated that the cost of building the hall was estimated at R3.5 million. “We cannot allow the Ravele CPA committee to spend R3.5 million for building a hall while beneficiaries suffer and have not yet received benefits,” said the concerned group. Bvumbi also mentioned that unhappiness existed about bonuses of R10 000 allegedly paid to members of the Ravele CPA’s executive committee, board directors and the royal council in December last year. Mr Nelson Netshisahulu, chairperson of the Mauluma Farming Enterprise board, did not want to comment on any of the accusations made by the concerned group. He said that the grievances should not be addressed via the media. “If the members from the concerned group are registered members, they must write down and submit their concerns to the administration office,” said Netshisahulu.  Mauluma Enterprise beneficiaries going through the verification process, but the meeting was later disrupted.  Bernard Chiguvare is a Zimbabwean-born journalist. He writes mainly for the online publication, Groundup.  Email: bernchiguvare@gmail.com