News - Date: 29 February 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 332 A cleaner of the Vhembe TVET College campus in Thengwe, Ms Luvhengo Netshilindi-Mutuvhi (42), was described as dedicated and hardworking and loved by all on campus. She was also an active member of her church, who excelled in performing church activities. She and Thengwe Secondary School educator Mr Tshifhiwa Kwinda (53) died in a taxi crash at Makonde Shadani village a fortnight ago. Her church leader, Pastor Daniel Mthombeni, who also delivered a eulogy during the funeral, said Netshilindi-Mutuvhi had been living testimony of her love for her family and the congregation of the Light of God Missionary Church in Thohoyandou Unit E. “She was an active member of the church who dedicated her life to Christianity, and we saw her living Biblical love. She was on the mothers committee of the church and the chairperson of the fundraising committee,” said Pastor Mthombeni. Her funeral service started in the Light of God Missionary Church, and later she was laid to rest in Mbilwi-Makanga village graveyard. Family representative Mr Itani Munyangane said the family was devastated about the passing away of one of their valuable members who was able to connect family members. “We will always remember the kindness she showed to us as family members and we also extend our thanks to all the people who showed support. It will be difficult for the family to forget about her love, kindness and dedication she displayed during her time on earth,” said Munyangane. Limpopo police Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said police investigations were continuing into the circumstances surrounding the accident. The principal of Vhembe TVET College, Ms Basani Hlekani, said the deceased had joined the Vhembe TVET College in 2016, “working on our Thengwe Campus as a cleaner and was one of the hardworking staff members who also loved her job”. Ms Netshilindi-Mutuvhi left behind her husband, Mr Fhatuwani Mutuvhi, and four children, Tsiko, Ndivho, Masindi and Tshedza.  Family members of Ms Netshilindi-Mutuvhi unveiled the tombstone after the emotional funeral at Mbilwi-Makanga graveyard on Saturday. Also in the picture is Dean Zwo Nevhutalu (standing right).  Email: