News - Date: 27 February 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1014 The family of Mr Thema Manavhela (65), who was burnt beyond recognition in a house fire at Madabani in January, is still waiting for his remains to bury his body. Manavhela was alone when the fire broke out. The rest of the family attended a church service when the incident took place on 5 January. Everything regarding the funeral arrangements was put on hold as the family is waiting for the release of DNA results. The tent that was erected behind the family's home for the funeral has gathered dust and now hosts regular prayer sessions. It has also become a gathering place for those visiting the family to express their condolences. The younger brother of the deceased, Mr Lekgapa Manavhela, said that his family could not find closure as they had been waiting for the remains, so they could give him a dignified funeral. They still need to get the DNA results to confirm that the remains are his before the body can be released. He said the family members were upset that they were not getting updates from the police. They were supposed to bury him on 11 January after the post-mortem was done at Elim Hospital on 7 January. They were then told that the body would go for DNA tests in Pretoria and since then they have been waiting for the results. "Life is not easy as we continue to wait for the DNA results. Since the day the tragedy happened, we have been waiting and they are telling us it will be completed soon," he said. Manavhela said life had become very difficult for the entire family, having been forced to put the funeral arrangements on hold for eight weeks now. The police spokesperson, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said the body had been burnt and after the post-mortem examination the doctor’s report requested them to send the body for DNA tests in Pretoria. Mojapelo urged the family to be patient and said they would get the results soon after the completion of the tests.    The empy grave with bricks on top.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za