News - Date: 07 February 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 340 As the warm weather continues across the country, at least eight people have drowned in Vhembe since the beginning of the year. The latest victims were three toddlers who drowned at Tshituni Tshafhasi last Friday. The SAPS spokesperson, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, said that they were very concerned because the weather continued to be hot and people played around rivers and dams, trying to cool off. “The number of drowning cases in the province is increasing. This is of serious concern as the figure of fatalities in water continues to rise. One loss is one too many. Most of the victims drown in rivers, flowing streams or dams and a high percentage of the deceased are young people,” said Mojapelo. “We are urging the public to stay away from rivers, dams and places that are not designated for swimming. Several people also get into the water while under the influence of alcohol. It hampers their judgement, leading to loss of life. Parents must help us and stop children from getting into swimming pools if they don’t know how to swim,” said Mojapelo. In the recent incident, the police have opened inquest cases after three toddlers drowned in a swimming pool in Tshituni Tshafhasi. “It is alleged that the three toddlers, who are neighbours, were playing when they wandered off and gained entrance to the premises unnoticed and advanced to a swimming pool. “The elder brother of one of the children got frightened when he could not see them and decided to trace them. He then made the horrific discovery of the three children floating in the swimming pool. He immediately alerted his mother, who reacted swiftly. “The children were rushed to the local clinic. Sadly, they were all certified dead on arrival,” the police said. The deceased are Mashudu Angel Langanani (3), Never Shandukani (3) and Vhutali Ramovha (4).   Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za