News - Date: 28 February 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 518 The Zoutpansberg Community Development Forum postponed the total shutdown protest that was planned for Monday and Tuesday. The secretary of Zoutpansberg Community Development Forum, Mr Mbulaheni Malotsha, said that the planned shutdown was postponed during a post-mortem of the previous week’s shutdown and rampage that occurred in Gogobole and Tshiozwi. Residents barricaded roads with obstacles and commuters were left stranded. Many workers did not report for work and school children were forced to stay at home because of the barricaded roads and the lack of transport. Shops in the area were closed for most of the morning. Malotsha said that the forum had a meeting to do a thorough assessment. Not downplaying matters of crime, the postponed shutdown and protest were about poor service delivery, he added. Malotsha said that lack of regular provision of water in Sinthumule and Kutama was a source of complaints and that a series of meetings with Vhembe District Municipality had not borne any fruits. He reiterated that potholes on the D959 road from town, passing Madombidzha to the Air Force Base, had caused mayhem for motorists, who suffered punctures, breakdowns and other damage to their vehicles. “What is more concerning is the accidents and loss of lives that happens regularly.” Regarding the R3715 from Madabani to Tshikhodo, the forum believes this is a disaster that needs an urgent intervention. He said that the forum’s position was clear that both these roads needed complete rehabilitation. Malotsha said that during apartheid, the white farmers had closed a public road linking Magau village to the N1. The traditional leadership and villagers want this road opened again as soon as possible. The Zoutpansberg Community Development Forum has raised these matters with the authorities concerned and continue to make follow-ups. “Our approach, as always, is persuasion. When everything else has failed, we will consult the community and get a mandate to plan and apply for a shutdown and a peaceful protest,” he added.  The D3715 road from Madabani to Tshikodombo.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za