News - Date: 23 February 2020 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 628 Louis Trichardt-born plus-size model Wanga Ramuhuyu is ready to conquer the modelling industry. The 20-year-old is a finalist in this year's Miss South Africa Plus Size World pageant. The pageant is dedicated to promoting, elevating and celebrating the accomplishments and humanitarian services of women from across the world. Its goal is to build a sisterhood of confident and influential women who share their culture with each other and the world as they promote education, peace, wellness and community service. For Wanga, participating in this pageant is a dream come true. "I am participating in this pageant to grow my confidence, to encourage others to boost their confidence to be able to enter pageants and to impact the community of chubby girls and be a voice of young teenagers who still doubt their capabilities. I want to represent my community and my country, all together," she said. She had a tough childhood because of her body. "Growing up being the bigger girl was not easy; I lost my sense of belonging. I felt judged, which made me a shy person," she recalls. "I was verbally bullied while growing up and called with all sorts of names that made me feel incapable of doing anything. But I recently took a decision to love my body and not to let any negative comments dim my light, since people still continue to do so." Miss Venda Plus Size Entrepreneur 2017, Miss African Culture Plus Size Queen 2019, and Miss Charity Queen Durban 2019 are the titles she has won so far. She is studying for a BA in Business Administration at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. After this pageant journey, "I want to continue with my initiative of motivating girls to dream big and not be ashamed of their bodies. I hope to grow as a social media influencer since that is the quickest way to reach the youth today", she said. To those who are not confident enough in their bodies, she had this message: "I urge you to love yourself; it’s all a matter of mindset. Remind yourself that you are wonderfully made. You are an epitome of greatness waiting to bloom and be confident and know that you are all beautiful." The crowning will take place on 4 April 2020 in Bloemfontein, Free State.  Miss South Africa Plus Size World finalist Wanga Ramuhuyu. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: