News - Date: 15 February 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 1116 A former police officer and pastor of Rhema Kingdom Life, W/O Thinandavha Muligwe (55) of Tshishushuru village near Lwamondo, who was killed a fortnight ago when the driver of an unknown motor vehicle hit and killed him while he was exercising with his friend, was described as a hardworking policeman who had loved his job. Maj-Gen Rosinah Mulaudzi of the SAPS Vhembe Cluster, who also delivered the eulogy, said he had showed his enthusiasm and energy in crime prevention. He had been attached to the second-hand goods section at the Thohoyandou police station and had never allowed or taken bribes as he knew and understood the requirements of being a good civil servant, said Mulaudzi. W/O Muligwe was buried during an official police service, with the funeral function starting at Rhema Kingdom Life in Tshifulanani Lwamondo. Police officers sang songs, marched and saluted him to the local graveyard where he was later laid to rest. His elder brother, Dr Tshifhiwa Muligwe, said during his address that God was good and nothing bad came from God. “I used to send him to represent me on many occasions to church gatherings and funerals, and he never misled me. He qualified for church work after attending biblical courses and since then, he was my trusted aid whom I sent to preach,” added Muligwe. W/O Muligwe and his friend Nthatheni Nevhorwa were exercising along the Dzondo-to-Lwamondo-Zwikwengani road when the incident happened on Monday a fortnight ago, and the driver of the vehicle did not stop. Reading the obituary, Prof Walter Lumadi said the late W/O Muligwe had joined the SAPS in 1990. He started from the rank of constable and achieved that of warrant officer, the rank he held when he died. He also studied for a diploma in Ministry Services with Rhema Kingdom Life under Dr Tshifhiwa Muligwe, and Prof Lumadi was one of his lecturers. Limpopo police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe said that they had opened a case of culpable homicide, and possible reckless and negligent driving would be investigated. He left his mother, Vho-Nyawasedza Muligwe, wife Tondani and five children, Dakalo, Apfeswaho, Vhuthuhawe, Odzulaho and Hangwi.  Police officers carry the coffin of fellow officer W/O Thinandavha Muligwe to his resting place in the Tshifulanani Lwamondo cemetary.  Email: