News - Date: 13 February 2020 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 435 “The price of success is hard work and dedication. Success does not come easy. All your dreams can come true if you have the courage to pursue them,” said the Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of Venda, Dr Bernard Nthambeleni. Addressing the first-time entry students during the official opening of the academic year last Thursday, he told the students that their academic journey has just begun and the progress of completing their studies and courses would largely depend on how they conduct themselves. He commended them for choosing the institution as their preferred institution of higher learning in furthering their educational aspirations. “It is through your excellent performance in matric that you were able to secure your admission at this university. You have been selected for admission out of 20 677 new applications which were competing for 3 100 places.” He added that for the past years the lives of the students were mostly directed and dictated by parents, guardians and teachers. “You have now become the sole author of the next chapters of your story. You can determine the direction and the pace at which your story should go. Make a vow to yourself that you are going to complete your studies within the minimum stipulated time,” he said. He also told the new students that they will have the opportunity to learn new things, acquire new knowledge, develop new skills, and enhance their personal attributes. “At the same time, you are going to make new friends who will become your friends for life. Make efforts to know other students who share different cultural, social and linguistic background,” he said. He advised them to reject ideas, beliefs, values, norms and systems that perpetuate violence against women and children. “We are well placed to provide education and safe spaces to discuss these issues that are affecting the moral fibre of our societies. We are adopting a zero-tolerance approach to perpetrators of gender-based violence and sexual abuse,” he added. Dr Bernard Nthambeleni.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: