News - Date: 29 February 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 368 The feud between rival taxi associations the LTT-Musina Taxi Association and the Beit Bridge Taxi Association (BTA) seems to be spiralling out of control. Last Monday, the police had to close some taxi ranks in Musina. A taxi was destroyed amidst the taxi violence and the police arrested four members of the BTA. Members of the BTA have been barred from operating on the Musina-to-Louis Trichardt route as well as the Musina-to-Polokwane route, following a court ruling in the Polokwane High Court. The Limpopo Department of Roads and Transport, as well as the SA Police, was further instructed to enforce the law by issuing fines and arresting members of the BTA, should they operate on these routes. This past Monday, the LTT-Musina Association went to the Musina taxi rank to operate but were again refused access by the BTA. Leaders from the LTT-Musina Association then rushed to Polokwane to meet with the provincial police commissioner, the head of the tactical response team, the Public Policing Order unit and the Musina station commissioner in an effort to try and resolve the problems. The LTT-Musina operators accused the BTA of invading their territory and poaching customers. The members said this week that they were “sick and tired” of the intimidation tactics. The operators called on the authorities to resolve the conflict before more innocent people died. The four BTA members who were arrested appeared in court last Wednesday and were granted bail of R1 000 each. They are Samuel Ratshivhadelo (55), Namadzavho Maivha (63), Lindelani Tshivhandekano (32) and Michael Tshikwatamba (42). The case was postponed to 6 April. The police spokesperson, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, said that they would be going to Musina to try and solve the conflict. To address the challenges faced by cross-border road passenger operators, the Cross-Border Road Transport Agency (C-BRTA) will be hosting an indaba in Musina from 5 to 6 March.  Generic image.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za