News - Date: 22 February 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 984 Thousands of drivers, taxi owners, friends and concerned members of the community converged at the Louis Trichardt graveyard to pay their last respects to a slain taxi boss. Sobs and tears were evident during the emotional funeral of Mr Samuel Tshifhango (64) on Sunday. Tshifhango, a taxi boss, the chairperson of the LTT Musina Taxi Association and a pastor, was shot dead two weeks ago at the gate of his house. His death is allegedly related to taxi violence. His murder sent shockwaves through the taxi industry and community, with many calling on the police to tighten the screws and apprehend the killers. Several speakers at the emotional funeral called for calm and for all to leave everything in the hands of the law. Family spokesperson Mr Mukovhe Tshifhango described the death as a big loss to the family. "He was one of a kind, a unique person who was always ready to help each member of his family and whoever came to him for help. We have lost a great man," he said. Tshifhango said the deceased had played a uniting role in the family and they had all looked to him as an example. He said that the family had accepted what happened and would wait for the wheels of justice to move at their own pace. "Let us all be calm and not tarnish the good name of Samuel. It will be a fitting tribute to him if all of us behave in an orderly fashion and observe the rule of law and not take the law into our own hands." Mr Frans Kgasago from the National Taxi Alliance said that his association was saddened by the death of one of their own. He said their members were now working in constant fear, not knowing who would be next. "Tshifhango was the pillar of LTT Musina Association and nobody will ever replace him." The spokesperson for the SAPS, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, has appealed to the members of community to furnish the police with information that can help them to trace the suspects.  A family member at the tombstone.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za