News - Date: 30 October 2020 Written by:  / Viewed: 780 The past couple of weeks, several media reports have highlighted the cruel behaviour of people towards animals in the Vhembe District. However, another side also exists, where residents treat their pets as if they are demi-gods. One such person who would not trade his three loving dogs for anything is local comedian Livhuwani Madadzhe. Madadzhe’s dogs do not feed on low-quality pellets or left-over scraps. He explains that they share a well-prepared, roasted chicken twice a week, on top of the daily dog food that he buys and feeds them. They stay in their own room and they get a special bath once a week consisting of water and anti-parasite mixtures. He also takes them to the vet regularly to make sure that they are always healthy. Madadzhe said he spent a total of R7 500 to buy his three dogs. “Though I have spent a fortune on acquiring these dogs, I feel happy because each time I look at them, they bring a smile to my face. In fact, these dogs are part of my life, and I feel that I cannot live without them. I don’t know what will happen when one of them dies. I can’t imagine that day, because it will be like a part of me would have been removed from my body while I am alive.” He says he is saving some money to equip his dogs’ room with an air conditioner. “It pains me when it is terribly hot, and I enjoy the cool, air-conditioned environment either in my office or my bedroom, while my dogs only have a fan. These dogs are part of my family, and they deserve the same treatment that I receive as a human being. It is just a matter of time before I install an air conditioner in their room.” Besides the dogs, Madadzhe also has countless rabbits, chickens, and a tortoise in his yard at Sidou village, outside Thohoyandou. “I do charity work for the community because I love people. But on the other hand, animals have a special place in my heart, and I treat them the way I do my fellow human beings. I can rather go hungry while I know that my animals are well fed and taken care of at all times.” He condemns the actions of community members who abuse animals. “Why have them if you can’t take care of them? I urge the law-enforcement agencies to take harsh measures against anyone who abuses animals. If you feel that you would not be able to take care of the animals, put them up for adoption rather than to mistreat them.”  Famous local comedian Livhuwani Madadzhe bathes two of his beloved dogs. Photo supplied.  Email: