News - Date: 09 October 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 885 A senior bishop of the United African Apostolic Church (UAAC), Mr Rollet Kwinda Nehelula (84), passed away at the Polokwane Puluso Mediclinic on Sunday after a long illness. His son, Shoni Nehelula, described his father as “an angel who brought up his children with love and affection. We wipe our tears, because we know that he served the Lord every minute of his life”. He said his father’s death had left a big void in the family. “He was everything to us, and he was our main source of inspiration,” he said. He said his father had been a visionary and a good leader who had loved all people without discriminating or taking sides. “For me he was like a friend and not a father, because we shared ideas,” he added. The UAAC’s archbishop, David Mureri, described him as a pioneer, a born leader, and a man of vision. “This is a great loss not only for the church and the family, but for the whole community. To lose such an iconic leader during this period, is painful. We are just praying that God gives us all comfort in this time of grief,” he said. Mureri urged all to follow the good example set by Nehelula. “He had a vision to complete the house of God. I urge all of you, especially the children, to complete the project in order that his soul will rest in peace,” he said. “He was one of the veterans in the church and it becomes very painful when we lose icons like him.” Nehelula will be buried on Sunday at Musina cemetery. The service will start at 06:00.  Well-known senior bishop Rollet Kwinda Nehelula has passed away.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za