News - Date: 23 October 2020 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 234 The Deputy Minister of Transport, Ms Dikeledi Magadzi, urged communities in Ha-Musekwa and surrounding villages such as Pfumembe, Maangani and Maranikhwe in the Nzhelele area to take care of the Musekwa Rural Access Road (D3671), because the road belongs to them. “The road was built by the government, but we are here handing it over to communities,” she said. Magadzi urged the community members to take full responsibility for the infrastructure, as it will go a long way in helping communities. She said the skills the 52 community members involved in the project gained during the construction of the road would assist them with their future careers. “I urge the local Makhado Municipality to make use of their skills during similar projects,” said Magadzi. She said phase 2 of the Musekwa Access Road would begin very soon. This road will connect the Nwanedi Resort to the Musina Municipality, enabling tourists to visit the resort easily. Deputy Minister Magadzi was joined by Khosikhulu Toni Mphephu Ramabulana, the MEC for Transport and Community Safety, Ms Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya, Executive Mayor of Vhembe District Municipality Dowelani Nenguda, Makhado Mayor Samuel Munyai and several traditional leaders from around the Nzhelele area. The three-kilometre stretch of road at Musekwa was officially opened on Sunday, 18 October. The road was built by the Limpopo Department of Public Works, Roads, and Infrastructure through the Roads Stimulus Package from the national Department of Transport. The cost was just over R23 million. The programme is in line with the presidential economic package for the maintenance, rehabilitation. and upgrading of roads and it aims to improve the economic and social conditions of rural communities through the construction and maintenance of rural infrastructure, while creating jobs for rural communities. Mr Simon Mukwevho, representing the Musekwa Road Forum, told the gathering in Musekwa Thusong Centre that they were excited about the government’s commitment to uplifting conditions for people in rural communities, but still more needed to be done, as they still had long gravel roads that needed to be tarred. “We are worried that, with the bad state of our gravel roads, it becomes difficult for buses and taxis to ferry commuters,” he said.  The Deputy Minister of Transport, Ms Dikeledi Magadzi (on the right, cutting the ribbon) officially opened the Musekwa Rural Access Road, while assisted by Khosikhulu Vho-Toni Mphephu Ramabulana (on the left), while Executive Mayor of Vhembe District Municipality Dowelani Nenguda and MEC for Transport and Community Safety Ms Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya watch.  Email: