News - Date: 25 October 2020 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 637 The AFM National Sisters’ Fellowship, in alliance with Ms Violet Liremi of the Amazing Grace Assembly in Madombidzha village, recently donated three ablution blocks to pupils and educators at Litshovhu Secondary School. The fellowship partnered with the school governing body (SGB) and staff members to ensure that no pupil at the school loses their life in a pit toilet. “There are many cases of children who fell into pit toilets in their school grounds, some of whom perished while others sustained severe injuries,” said Pastor George Mahlobo. “According to Check Africa, there are no known public records available of the exact number of children who have drowned in pit latrines over a specified period in South Africa. It’s thus up to every one of us to add value towards ensuring that no more lives are lost at schools, due to a lack of proper ablutions,” he added. The aim of the AFM National Sisters’ Fellowship is to take care of the needy. They achieve this through community involvement. “Today, as the AFM church, we are here to make a lasting impact on the community of the Soutspanberg,” said Ms Margaret Moatshe of the AFM National Sisters’ Fellowship. The name of their project is “God is Good Enough”. Ms Jacobeth Mahlobo is the vision bearer of this project. Collins Sebola Construction ensured that strong and stable ablution blocks were constructed. “We would like to extend our gratitude to the AFM and its associate departments for entrusting us with this noble work,” said Mr Collins Sebola, the managing director of Collins Sebola Group. According to the AFM National Sisters’ Fellowship, the ablution project was completed at a cost of R250 000. “We are very grateful for the service rendered by Mr Collins Sebola,” Moatshe said. “Well done, Ms Violet Liremi, for being our project coordinator. It was easy to work with you until today as we hand over the ablution block,” said Moatshe. The school’s principal, Mr Mashudu Machaba, and the SGB were very appreciative of the good work delivered to them.  Three newly built ablution blocks were handed over to the pupils and staff of Litshovhu Secondary School as part of a donation. Picture: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com