News - Date: 29 October 2020 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 858 A 45-year-old suspect was arrested on Tuesday after he had allegedly stabbed his girlfriend to death. The victim was identified as Ms Eunice Mukwevho (40) of Ha Mashau Magweni. The suspect allegedly visited Ms Mukwevho and accused her of having an affair. An argument started, whereafter the man stabbed the woman. She was later taken to Elim hospital but died of the wounds sustained. According to the police’s spokesperson, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, the suspect was arrested on the scene and charged with assault and causing grievous bodily harm. The charge was later changed to murder after the woman had died. Mojapelo called on people with marital and relationship problems to consult with social workers and go for counselling, rather than resorting to killing each other. Ms Cecilia Mukwevho, sister of the victim, said that the incident had caught them off guard. “It came as a shock to us and we are very sad,” she said. “Imagine seeing blood oozing and deep head wounds on a person you love. It was a very scary situation,” she said. Mukwevho said that the family and community were traumatised. She said the death of Eunice had left them with deep wounds that would take some time to heal. “We lost a family member, and she cannot be replaced.” The chairperson of the Munna Ndi Nnyi organisation, Mr Bardwell Mufunwaini, visited the family and expressed his disappointment about the fact that some people still used violence to solve their problems. “I have not seen something like this. This is bad and heart-breaking,” he said. Mufunwaini added that several different structures and organisations were available to assist couples with problems. “All we can do now is to make an appeal to the community not to resort to violence as a way out of their problems,” he said. Mufunwaini called on all couples with problems to approach traditional leaders or other professional structures that can help them. At the time of our going to press, the suspect had not appeared in court yet.  Ms Eunice Mukwevho (40).  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za