News - Date: 11 October 2020 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 863 A 19-year-old woman from Ngovhela village, Phuluso Nemahunguni, is an Empress South Africa 2020 semi-finalist who “hopes to bring the crown home”. “I joined the pageant because I have always had a dream to inspire other plus-sized women to gain confidence and love themselves,” Phuluso said. “I always encourage fellow young women to rise and make things happen. As women, we need to claim our place in society. If we do so with confidence, nothing will put us down.” Phuluso is not a novice in modelling, for she was crowned Miss Personality in 2019 during the Miss Venda Plus-Size pageant. “I love modelling because it brings out the best in me,” she said. “Modelling has helped me regain my confidence. It made me realise that I am a conqueror. It made me understand that there is completely nothing wrong with being a plus-size.” This young woman exudes exceptional confidence as she speaks. She is the epitome of beauty with brains, for her humility speaks volumes. “A message I would love to share with my fellow beautiful ladies is that you have the power within you,” she said. “You simply need to believe in yourself. Believe in your abilities. You possess all divine qualities; so, never let your body size limit you from doing what you love.” She is kindly requesting readers to vote for her as a means to bolster her chances of earning more points in the pageant. SMS "Phuluso" to 35334. Each SMS costs R3, and no free SMSes apply. Those interested in this young woman’s journey can follow her on social media platforms: Facebook (Phuluso Nemahunguni), and Instagram (@c_risantha_mesa2020).  Phuluso Nemahunguni is a confident woman who inspires fellow young women. Picture supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com