News - Date: 17 October 2020 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 152 The opening of the art exhibition at the Thavhani Mall heralds an era of renewed hope for Vhembe artists as their work is being displayed for the purpose of having people buy it to enjoy the artistic value. The exhibition is hosted by Art Margins NPC, an organisation whose main purpose is to assist artists. The organisation’s Takalani Ligege thanked the management of Thavhani Mall for hosting such an exhibition. “We can now continue to create a space for art appreciation and audience building,” he said. “We invite people to come and view the artwork; entrance is free.” One of the artists whose works are on display, Mudinda Innocent Maumela, was enthusiastic about the opportunities on offer. He discovered art in 2018 and still considers himself as an artist in the making, but his works speak volumes as they are those of a mature artist who understands the aesthetic value. “I am really happy that there are people who are lending us real support, and it all makes us pull up our socks and never give up,” he said. Pfano Bebeda, a resident of Tshandama village, discovered art at an early age. He started out by drawing some cartoons and carving wooden spoons, which had those seeing them gape in utter amazement. “Today I specialise in wood carvings where I produce sculptures, wooden watches and furniture,” he said. “I hope to benefit from recognition and appreciation from this art exhibition. It is my belief that our work on display will inspire young people who want to follow their passion in art.” Another artist, Nkhangwe Mulangaphuma, discovered her passion for art when she was just a pupil at a primary school. “Fortunately, my mom saw the passion I had for art, and she encouraged and supported me to never give up on what I enjoyed doing,” she said. “She also took me to Saturday art classes, until I decided to further my studies in Fine Arts. To me, art is another form of therapy; one can make an art piece that speaks to the soul.” During the launch, Chief Livhuwani Matsila said the art gallery was a masterpiece, celebrating the creative minds in the Vhembe region. “I wish to congratulate Thovhele Vho-Jeffery Ramovha and his team at Thavhani Mall for this selfless initiative that seeks to empower local artists who will now benefit from selling their products to various customers who flock to the mall,” he said. “The quality of the products is very impressive, classy and worthy of international consumption. As the Matsila Community Development Trust, we wish to pledge our support to the artists to ensure sustainable production and marketing of their crafts for job creation.” The legendary multitalented artist and art teacher, Avhashoni Mainganye, said that the art exhibition was more educational because the gallery had been brought to the people. “People come and ask questions and we are ready to answer them,” he said. “We priced our art pieces at an international rate because our art is at international level.” Art Margins NPC ‘s directors, Mr Takalani Ligege, Dr Thulani Zulu and Ms Vhudzani Mavhina, have vast experience in creating, managing, and coordinating art projects varying in scope. The exhibition is open Monday to Friday from 09:00 to 17:00 and on Saturdays from 09:00 to 17:00.  Mudinda Innocent Maumela is very excited about the opportunities the exhibition offers.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com